#summary Show the system installation guide
#labels Featured

= Installation guide =
 
Please, check the [SystemRequirements System requirements] before pass to the installation process.

== Executing the JBioWH Desktop Client file ==

Download the JBioWH Desktop client latest version from the [DownloadWiki download page].

=== Windows ===

Use the Windows Command Tool (CMD) and type the following sentence to execute the *JBioWH Desktop Client* in the folder where you have the JBioWH JAR downloaded version.

{{{
java -jar jbiowh-desktop-<version>.jar
}}}

=== Linux ===

Use the Linux terminal and type the following sentence to execute the *JBioWH Desktop Client*

{{{
java -jar jbiowh-desktop-<version>.jar
}}}

== Executing the JBioWH Parser file ==

Download the JBioWH Parser latest version from the [DownloadWiki download page].

=== Windows ===

Use the Windows Command Tool (CMD) and type the following sentence to execute the *JBioWH Parser* in the folder where you have the JBioWH JAR downloaded version.

{{{
java -jar jbiowh-parser-<version>.jar -i dataset-config.xml
}}}

=== Linux ===

Use the Linux terminal and type the following sentence to execute the *JBioWH Parser*

{{{
java -jar jbiowh-parser-<version>.jar -i dataset-config.xml
}}}


== Downloading the source code =

Go to [http://code.google.com/p/jbiowh/wiki/Source?tm=4 source] page

== Create tables on the MySQL DBMS ==

Open the _*mysql*_ command line utility. Create the new schema with the command:

<code language="sql">
CREATE DATABASE biowh CHARACTER SET = utf8 COLLATE = utf8_bin;
</code>

You can use other name than _*biowh*_, just remember it for further uses and replace the _*biowh*_ world in the above lines by your database name.

The SQL script with the relational schema can be extracted from the JAR file of from the source directory downloaded from the SVN server. 

Extract the {{{jbiowh-dbms-<version>.jar}}} file to a folder using, on windows, WinRAR or WinZIP, and on Linux using the unzip tool. The SQL script is inside the folder _*schema/mysql/*_. 

From the source code the SQL script is inside the folder _*src/main/resources/schema/mysql*_ or download from [http://jbiowh.googlecode.com/svn/jbiowh-dbms/src/main/resources/schema/mysql/warehouse.sql warehouse.sql]

Additionally, we provide the [http://jbiowh.googlecode.com/svn/jbiowh-dbms/src/main/resources/schema/mysql/MySQLWorkBench/warehouse.mwb MySQL Workbench] project file. 

Load the relational schema typing the following command:

<code language="sql">
use biowh;
source <path-to-sql-script>/warehouse.sql;
</code>
  
== Compiling the source code ==

Compile the source code to generate a java jar file.

=== Windows ===

Use the CMD to navigate to the _*{{{jbiowh-<API>}}}*_ folder. If you copy the _*{{{jbiowh-<API>}}}*_ on _*C:*_ directory you should type on your CMD to compile the *JBioWH* source code:

{{{
C:
cd jbiowh-core
mvn clean package
cd ../jbiowh-dbms
mvn clean package
cd ../jbiowh-persistence
mvn clean package
cd ../jbiowh-parser
mvn clean package
cd ../jbiowh-desktop
mvn clean package
}}}

=== Linux ===

Use the the terminal on Linux to navigate to the _*{{{jbiowh-<API>}}}*_ folder. 

Type the following command line: 
<code language="bash">
cd jbiowh-core
mvn clean package
cd ../jbiowh-dbms
mvn clean package
cd ../jbiowh-persistence
mvn clean package
cd ../jbiowh-parser
mvn clean package
cd ../jbiowh-desktop
mvn clean package
</code>

After the compilation process you will have a folder named _*target*_ on the _*{{{jbiowh-<API>}}}*_ folder with the generated jar files _*{{{jbiowh-<API>-<version>.jar}}}*_ and _*{{{jbiowh-<parser|desktop>-<version>-jar-with-dependencies.jar}}}*_.