#summary This wiki is the introduction to the Java API
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

The java *API* is implemented using the [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html Oracle Java SE 7]. The *API* has three principal libraries, the *{{{jbiowh-core}}}*, *{{{jbiowh-dbms}}}* and the *{{{jbiowh-persistence}}}*. The first package includes all basic classes, the second one includes the DBMS classes and the last one includes the JPA model.  The *{{{jbiowh-persistence}}}* library includes the classes to handle the database entities according with the object-oriented model described by the *JPA* approach. Each entity maps the relationship between the biological objects giving total interconnectivity between the objects on the java code. The core classes use the !EclipseLink library to map object-oriented models onto MySQL relational database tables in the back-end.

The *{{{jbiowh-parser}}}* library includes the classes to read the data from the data sources (parsers) and inserted into the relational schema.

Finally, the java API was designed using the Java Pattern Design concepts (Gamma et al., 1995). Theses concepts standardize the java code by the use of design patterns for external developers involved on object-oriented software design. 

== !JavaDoc ==

 * [http://jbiowh.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/javadoc/jbiowh-core/index.html jbiowh-core]
 * [http://jbiowh.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/javadoc/jbiowh-dbms/index.html jbiowh-dbms]
 * [http://jbiowh.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/javadoc/jbiowh-persistence/index.html jbiowh-persistence]
 * [http://jbiowh.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/javadoc/jbiowh-parser/index.html jbiowh-parser]
 * [http://jbiowh.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/javadoc/jbiowh-desktop/index.html jbiowh-desktop]
 * [http://jbiowh.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/javadoc/jbiowh-tools/index.html jbiowh-tools]
 * [http://jbiowh.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/javadoc/jbiowh-webservices/index.html jbiowh-webservices]

= References = 
Gamma,E. et al. (1995) Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software Addison-Wesley.