= News =

== New JBioWH framework release (Number 6.0.1). ==

Added on: Jan, 10, 2014.

The [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/COG COG], [http://eggnog.embl.de/version_4.0.beta eggNOG] and [http://orthoxml.org OrthoXML based]  databases were added to the framework. 


== New JBioWH framework major release (Number 6.0.0). ==

Added on: Dec, 18, 2013.

The relational schema was changed to reduce the data size. The use of the the primary and foreign key have been improved in the relational schema and in the Java Persistence Model.

The database have to be reload from scratch because it is no possible to create a SQL script due to the changes. 

The [http://pir.georgetown.edu/pirwww/dbinfo/pirsf.shtml PIRSF] database was added to the framework. 

New JAR file [http://jbiowh.googlecode.com/files/jbiowh-tools-6.0.0.jar jbiowh-tools-6.0.0.jar] is available into the [DownloadWiki Download] page. This JAR file includes the examples and some tools available using the JBioWH API.

== New *JBioWH* webservice source code available ==

Added on: Nov, 16, 2013.

See implementation details [WebServices here] and the running service [http://hydrax.icgeb.trieste.it:8080/jbiowh-webservices/ here]

== New *JBioWH* framework API ==

Added on: Oct, 24, 2013.

We are glad to announce new changes to our *JBioWH* framework since version 5.0.0. 

Due to further uses of our java API we decided to split the *JBioWH* JAR file in to three APIs. This will help to included the *JBioWH* API in other projects.

We created a core API named: *jbiowh-core* which includes all basic classes like the logger and some utilities for file handled.

Then, we create two independent APIs, *jbiowh-dbms* and *jbiowh-persistence* which uses the *jbiowh-core*. 

The first API, *jbiowh-dbms*, includes all classes to connect, using the  mysql-connector-java API to manipulate directly the relational schema. Also, this API includes the warehouse.sql script to create the relational schema.

The second API, *jbiowh-persistence*, includes the JPA classes and controllers to access, using the  eclipselink API, to the data in an object oriented programming approach.

We include important changes to the source code. The class *JBioWHUserData* was created into the core API to storage the basic user data and will be available in the dbms and persistence APIs. This class is extended by the *WHMySQL* class who is an implementation of the *WHDBMSFactory* interface (*jbiowh-dbms*). Also, a new singleton class *JBioWHDBMS* (*jbiowh-dbms*) was created to manipulate all connections to the DBMS. 

In the *jbiowh-persistence* API the class *JBioWHPersistence* was created to manipulate the different persistence schema that can be opened by the *JBioWH* framework. This class uses the *JBioWHUserData* too.

Using these tree APIs we released two main applications: *JBioWH Parser* and *Desktop Client*. 

The *JBioWH Parser* is used to insert the data to the relational schema  and the Desktop Client is the graphical interface for data visualization.  
  
Please, go to our [https://code.google.com/p/jbiowh/wiki/DownloadWiki?tm=2 Download] page to see the last updates